[Term Entry] php/string-functions ord.md (#3255)
Codecademy/docs: content/php/concepts/string-functions/terms/ord/ord.md

---
Title: 'ord()'
Description: 'Returns an integer between 0 and 255 corresponding to the binary value of the first character of a string.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`ord()`** function takes a string as its only parameter and returns an integer between 0 and 255 based on the first character in that string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`ord()`** function takes a string as its only parameter and returns an integer between 0 and 255 based on the first character in that string. The `chr()` function is the inverse, and will supply a single-byte string based on the given number.
```

> The integer returned is the decimal equivalent of the binary representation of the character. This binary representation conforms to the [ASCII standard](https://www.ascii-code.com/). Therefore, the integer returned is the ASCII decimal value of the first character in the parameter string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The integer returned is the decimal equivalent of the binary representation of the character. This binary representation only applies to single-byte encodings (ASCII, ISO-8859, Windows 1252).
```

Author: The statement that the binary representation "only applies" to certain encoding standards is unclear. What does it mean for a binary representation (e.g. 100 101) to apply to ASCII, for example? It is clearer to say that the binary representation was chosen so as to conform with these single-byte encoding standards.

Reviewer: I put forward this wording because I think it's closer to the phrasing used in the PHP documentation. However, I'm not strongly committed to it. You can leave your original text.

## Syntax

```pseudo
ord(string)
```

> Required Parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> -`string` is the string that the function will take the first character of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function has one parameter, `string`. The first character of the passed value will be returned as the relevant integer. 
```

## Example

```php
<?php
echo ord("equanimity");
?>
```

This results in the output:

```shell
101
```

> In the above example, the first character of the string "equanimity" is "e". In accordance with the ASCII standard, this is represented in binary as 110 0101. This binary value is equivalent to the decimal value 101. Therefore the call to the `ord()` returns 101.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Why should this be deleted? Should there not be an explanation of the example?

Reviewer: The examples generally only have a brief intro. Sometimes explanations are included but I think this should be reserved for code that is more advanced or ambiguous.

Author: I've deleted the explanation.

## Codebyte Example

```codebyte\php
<?php
	$your_string = 'Try changing this string!';
	echo "The ASCII value of the first character of your string is: ". ord($your_string);
?>
```

> Change the value of `your_string` in the runnable code above to see the ASCII decimal value of various characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code below is runnable, change the value of `your_string` to see the associated decimal value of various characters.
```

Reviewer: move this between the header and the codebyte

> > **Note:** The original ASCII standard only went up to a decimal value of 128 (mostly including punctuation marks, letters, numbers, and mathematical symbols). Extended ASCII (also called "Windows 1252") extended this to 255 (including foreign letters, currency symbols, and various other characters). The characters included in this extended set are those that `ord()` is to built to deal with. There are printable characters that are not covered by this extension (such as '⅊').

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
